---
{"date":"2023-03-12","tags":["thought" ],"topic":"[[Consciousness]]","publish":true,"PassFrontmatter":true}
---

The concept of the conscious and unconscious mind was first introduced by Sigmund Freud, the father of psychoanalysis. According to Freud, the unconscious mind is the part of our psyche that contains all of our repressed memories, desires, and fears. The conscious mind, on the other hand, is the part of our psyche that we are aware of and can control.

In addition to the conscious and unconscious mind, there is also the concept of the shadow. The shadow is the part of our psyche that we are not aware of and do not want to acknowledge. It contains all of the aspects of our personality that we find undesirable or shameful. Jung, the founder of analytical psychology, believed that it was important to integrate the shadow into our conscious mind in order to achieve individuation and become a whole person.

I find that the the unconscious comes as a whisper of sorts in my mind, while the conscious is what most people are familiar with the inner voice. I heavily disagree with [[Freud\|Freud]] where he says the unconscious is uncontrollable. It kinda reminds of [[Sam Harris\|Sam Harris]] on free will. Regardless, the unconscious thought will only rule you if you let it, because it must pass through your conscious self. What happens I assume is that most people don’t think much about it and just roll with it. I agree with the Jungian view of the shadow, and I do have some undesirable wishes, but they are just thoughts that I don’t let rule who I am. The unconscious is just uncontrollable in the sene that we don’t pick what to think, but we do pick what to do with the thought. That is why I think everybody is capable of all things, either good or bad, what happens is they either repress it or they have reasons based on values not to do it. For those that don’t have values and everything becomes gratuitous, the unconscious will rule over them.